Transcriber: Doğa Köse
Reviewer: Raúl Higareda
Have you ever been nervous or felt fear
when you’ve had to speak in public?
Maybe you’ve been on a stage
in front of a room full of people,
or maybe you had a shared presentation
in front of your coworkers.
Or maybe you’ve been in a room full
of strangers and they made you stand up
and say who you are,
where you’re from, and what you do.
Now, at some point, most people
have felt what it feels like
to be afraid to speak in public.
For me, I grew up with a tremendous fear
of public speaking.
and my earliest memory
of having a fear to speak
happened in the second grade.
Our teacher was going around the room
and calling on students to read.
Anybody been there?
I was thinking, “Please don’t call on me.
Please don’t call on me.”
And she called someone else.
(Sigh) I can relax.
But as they would get to the end
of what they were reading,
that anxiety would start to build again.
“Please don’t call on me.
Please don’t call on me.”
And then it happened.
She called my name
and this wave of anxiety
came over my body.
And as I started to read,
I started fumbling over my words.
And the more I tried to get it together,
the worse it got.
And I started hearing
other kids laughing at me.
And by the time I finished,
I was so embarrassed.
I remember thinking,
“I never want to do that again.”
And it created this memory early on.
“You’re not a public speaker.
This isn’t for you.
You just need to stay quiet.”
And I kept that memory for years to come.
Fast forward
to my freshman year in college.
I had to take a speech class.
When I got up to give my speech,
that familiar wave of anxiety
came over my body again.
My heart started beating out of my chest,
my adrenaline was racing,
my throat got dry,
my my muscles started to tense up,
and when I was looking at my note card,
my hands just started shaking.
And when I tried to speak,
my voice started trembling.
And I felt this wave of heat
come over my body,
and I felt like I was about to pass out.
And somehow I made it through the speech,
but that further anchored into my mind,
“You’re not a speaker.
You just need to give this up.”
And I continued to believe that for years.
Public speaking is not for me.
But over the years,
I kept feeling this feeling inside
that I had a message to share,
that I needed to speak,
that I could make a bigger impact.
So that led me to the first key
that helped me overcome
my fear of public speaking:
the realization that everyone
has a message to share.
Each and every one of you
has a message inside of you
that the world is waiting to hear.
And your message matters.
But maybe you’re like me.
For years, I didn’t think
I had a message to share.
I wondered, “What could I share
that would help someone else?”
Well, my friend and mentor,
Rory Vaden, says it best.
He says, “You are perfectly positioned
to serve the person you once were.”
Think about that.
There’s stuff you’ve
been through in your life.
There’s lessons you’ve learned,
obstacles you’ve overcome.
And there’s lessons
you’ve learned along the way
that you can take and help other people.
Because right now,
there’s someone going through
what you went through in the past,
and you can take
those lessons you’ve learned
and help them overcome their challenges.
So I started going through my life,
and I started thinking,
“Well, what have I been through,
and what lessons have I learned
that I could use to help others?”
And I started sharing those,
and I started helping people.
And that's why I'm here today,
sharing this message,
because I overcame the fear
of public speaking years ago,
and I wanted to share what helped me
so other people can share
their message with the world.
So first, I realized I had
a message to share.
Then I started asking myself,
“Well, what goes through my head
that makes me so nervous
before I get up to speak?”
And I would think thoughts like,
“They’re going to judge me.
What if they don’t like the way I look,
or the way I’m dressed,
or what if they don’t like
the sound of my voice,
or what if I mess up
and I say the wrong thing?”
All those thoughts that were
going through my head were about me.
Me, me, me.
And I realized I needed to shift that.
And that led me to the second realization
that helped me overcome
my fear of public speaking:
realizing that sharing your message
is not about you.
It’s about the people
you’re there to serve
and what’s in it for them.
And my friend Rory Vaden says it best.
He told me, “Fear disappears
when the mission to serve is clear.”
When you have the heart to serve people,
you take the focus off of you,
and you start focusing on what’s
the benefit that they’re going to get
by hearing my message.
And that changed everything for me.
When I took the focus off of me
and I started focusing on what
are they going to get out of my message,
I realized if one person
takes what I have to say
and applies it to their life,
it was worth it.
So key number one is
you have a message to share.
Number two, your message is not about you.
It’s about the people
you’re there to serve.
Now the next thing I started to do
was I started to study,
“Well, what is fear?”
And fear is our body’s
natural response to danger.
When our body feels danger,
we go into the fight or flight response.
And we get ready to run
or fight for our lives.
So I was studying,
“What are the common causes of fear?”
And the most common
physiological responses to fear
are increased heart rate,
increased adrenaline,
shallow breathing,
muscle tension, sweating,
dry mouth, and butterflies in the stomach.
I used to get most of those
when I would get up to speak.
But I started to ask myself,
“What other times
do I feel those feelings?”
Well, I feel those feelings
when I get excited.
So I looked up,
“What are the most common causes
or the common physiological
responses to excitement?”
And they are increased heart rate,
increased adrenaline,
shallow breathing, muscle tension,
sweating, dry mouth,
and butterflies in the stomach.
Our bodies go through
the exact same physiological response
in response to fear or excitement.
So the way to tell the difference,
if it’s fear, it’s associated
with a threat or danger.
Or if it’s excitement,
it’s positive anticipation.
So it all comes down to, “Am I in danger
or am I looking forward to this?”
And that led me to the third key
that helped me overcome my fear:
I could transform my fear into excitement.
When you get up
and you start to share your message
and you feel those familiar feelings,
what I used to do was say,
“Oh, there’s that fear again.
Remember when you used to speak before?
That didn’t go so well.
They’re going to judge you.
This isn’t for you.
Why do you think you should do this?”
And that fear would overtake me.
But now what I do, I shifted that
and I created a new story.
So when I feel those feelings,
I tell myself,
“You’re excited.
You’re about to go out there
and transform someone’s life today.”
And now I really do get excited
because I know that if I go out
and if one person takes what I have to say
and they apply it to their life,
I can make a positive impact.
So I want you to remember, when you get up
and you start to feel those feelings,
you have the ability to transform
that fear into excitement.
So if you’re still wondering,
“Why should I share my message?
What impact do I have to make?”
Well, I want to take you back to 2012.
At the time, I was giving the biggest talk
that I’d given at that point.
There was an auditorium
full of 200 people.
And I was ready.
I knew my message.
My mission to serve was clear.
I transformed my fear into excitement
and I went out there and I delivered.
And at the end of the talk,
a man came up to me.
He said, “Dr. Justin, I want to thank you
for sharing that message.”
He said, “I recently underwent
quadruple bypass surgery.”
He said, “When I was laying
in the hospital bed,
my family brought in my little grandson
and they put my grandson on my lap.”
And he said, “I looked at my grandson
and I made a promise right then and there
that I’m going to get my health back
because I’m going to be around
to watch my grandson grow up.”
And he said, “What you just shared with me
gave me exactly what I needed
to get my health back.”
And not only did he go on
to get his health back,
at 65 years old,
he completed the Ironman,
which is a grueling race,
which is a 2.4-mile swim,
a 112-mile bike ride,
and a complete marathon of 26.2 miles.
Not only has he done one Ironman,
he’s gone on to do multiple Ironman races.
And the reason I’m telling you this
is because I never would have been able
to make a difference in his life
if I wouldn’t have overcome
my fear of public speaking,
If I hadn’t realized I had
a message to share.
And if I didn’t get out
and start sharing that message,
I never would have been able to help him.
But just like that man needed
to hear my message in that moment,
there is someone that’s desperately
waiting to hear your message.
There's a message inside of you
that the world needs to hear.
So I want you to ask yourself,
“What impact can I make?
If I overcome my fear of public speaking
and I start sharing
my message with the world,
what lives can I touch?
What legacy can I leave?
What positive impact
can I make in the world?”
I want to leave you with one
of my favorite quotes from B.J. Palmer.
He says, “You never know how far-reaching
something you may think, say, or do today
will affect the lives
of millions tomorrow.”
If you would have told me years ago
that one day I was going to be
standing on the TEDx stage
in its iconic red circle
sharing my message with the world,
I would have said, “There’s no way.”
But I’m here, I did it.
And if I can overcome
my fear of public speaking,
so can you.
So my hope is
that you’ll find your message,
you’ll transform
your fear into excitement,
and you'll go out and you'll start sharing
your message with the world,
and you’ll make a positive impact.
I’m Dr. Justin Moseley. Thank you.
(Applause and cheers)